To install this datapack on single player:
* go to the single player button from the main menu
* select the world you want to add the datapack on
* click on "edit" at the bottom
* click on "open world folder", it will open a file browser
* open the datapacks folder
* place the datapack here
* done!


To install this datapack on a multiplayer server:
* open the folder where your server is stored on your computer
* open the world folder
* open the datapacks folder
* place the datapack here
* done!

Once installed you should be able to use the command "/trigger customCommandExample" in game
To test it, open your world were you installed the datapack and try the command:

/trigger customCommandExample

If your character in game says "test command" in the chat then the datapack is working!

You can edit text files inside the folder called "data" to add your own custom commands.
All your custom commands will be usable on a server even if you are not an admin,
and they all will start with "/trigger"

Why would you want to add a custom command? Well there are many uses!

    On my private server me and my friends have lots of bases and farms, so much that we forget
    were all the bases are located, I especially forget the chords of farms from other players
    since i don't use them often. So on my server I made a custom command to write in the chat
    a list of coordinates from all our bases and farms.

    Another cool command to do on a server is a command to teleport a player into their base.
    Normally teleporting players is restricted only to admins, but a custom command via
    /trigger allows non-admins to use the command.

    A use for custom commands is doing repetitive commands. For example if you find yourself
    going into creative mode to then spawn a certain item to then teleporting yourself you can
    make a command that does all those tasks in order using only 1 command instead of 3.

How do I add another command apart from the included example?

    Adding your own command is easy. You just need to edit a few text files. Here's what you
    need to know!

    These instructions are on a folder called yourCustomCommand, inside it we have a  folder
    called "data", open it up, then go to the "yourcustomcommands" folder, next open the
    "functions" folder, and in here you should see 3 files: init.mcfunction, tick.mcfunction
    and longcommand.mcfunction.
    
    To set up your own commands you will only need to edit 2 files: init.mcfunction &
    tick.mcfunction. To edit them, right click them and select "open with" and choose
    notepad or any text editor.

    init.mcfunction is where you name your custom commands and tick.mcfunction is where you
    tell minecarft whet those commands are supposed to do.

    init.mcfunction is called "init" for short for initialization because there is where the
    initial values, like the names for the commands, are stored. Te other function is called
    tick because everything in there is running every in game tick. In minecraft time is
    divided into 20 ticks per second, so stuff inside tick.mcfunction happens 20 times every
    second. On each game tick the game is checking if players are requesting to use your
    custom commands, and if in one particular tick it's true that someone requests a command
    then it executes the command, if no command is being requested then nothing happens.

    Before you edit the init and tick mcfunction files you need to know what commands will
    achieve what you want in game. So go to your world in mineraft and type a command in
    the chat. There are plenty of tutorials of how to do various stuff with commands, so I
    recommend you look up a tutorial for your desired outcome. For example "how to teleport
    myself to my base with command in minecraft" will point you in the right direction if 
    that's what you want. Once you know what command you need, test it in game and copy
    the command to your clipboard.

    Now you can come back to the init and tick mcfunction files. Start by editing
    init.mcfunction.

    Inside init.mcfunction you'll see instructions on what to do in more detail, but the gist
    of it is that you want to come up with a command alias. A command aliases is the word that
    triggers your desired command. for the "teleport to base" example you could go with an
    alias like "goToBase". Meaning your command will be "/trigger goToBase".

    To do this add a new line with this text:

    scoreboard objectives add goToBase trigger

    If you want to add multiple custom commands you will need to add multiple lines with
    the corresponding command alias, for example a setup for adding 3 commands will look
    like this:

    scoreboard objectives add goToBase trigger
    scoreboard objectives add giveMeFood trigger
    scoreboard objectives add doubleMyHearts trigger

    Remember that we add these lines of text inside init.mcfunction. Since inside
    init.mcfunction is where we choose the names of the commands.

    To tell minecraft what those commands to save your changes and open tick.mcfunction. Again
    inisde tick.mcfunction you will find more detailed instructions but I will briefly explain
    the bigger picture here too.

    Basically, you want to add those 3 lines of text per custom command:

    scoreboard players enable @a COMMAND-ALIAS
    execute as @a[scores={COMMAND-ALIAS=1..}] run COMMANDS-TO-RUN
    scoreboard players set @a COMMAND-ALIAS 0

    replace COMMAND-ALIAS from those 3 lines with the command name you picked, for example
    in the case of "giveMeFood" we replace the following:

    scoreboard players enable @a giveMeFood
    execute as @a[scores={giveMeFood=1..}] run COMMANDS-TO-RUN
    scoreboard players set @a giveMeFood 0

    Now we fill in the command that actually gives us food in mineraft, for example:

    scoreboard players enable @a giveMeFood
    execute as @a[scores={giveMeFood=1..}] run give @a minecraft:cooked_beef 64
    scoreboard players set @a giveMeFood 0

    We don't add the "/" as we do in game, so we replaced "COMMANDS-TO-RUN" with 
    "give @a minecraft:cooked_beef 64". This will do the same effect as if an admin
    typed "/give @a minecraft:cooked_beef 64" thus giving the player a stack of cooked beef.

    If you want a custom command to execute more than 1 command you need to use functions,
    an explanation is included inside tick.mcfunction

    






